---
layout: post
title:  "Happiness is Overrated"
subheader: "My humble opinions on the role happiness should play in our lives"
date: "2023-02-08"
category: life
---

Happiness is overrated. The idea of pursuing a happy life is, in my mind, signing a contract with yourself to guarantee the exact opposite result. By definition, if you feel the need to pursue something, you do not currently have it, so seeking happiness seems counterintuitive.

As a computer science student with the intent of making this subject the crux of my full-time career, the question of “Does programming make me happy?” has been mulled over on more than one occasion, especially when studying for a particularly difficult exam or debugging an elusive problem. And honestly, I don’t think I can say with confidence that it consistently makes me happy. Then why do I do it? In fact, many of my friends have come to me questioning how I can work for so many hours a day without hesitating. And if this work doesn’t always make me happy, how can I sustain myself in the long term?
We’ve all heard the trope, “Do what you love so you won’t have to work a day in your life.” I think this is a dangerous mindset to instill in future generations. There’s not a single job where one will enjoy every single waking minute while doing it. Each job is riddled with logistics or housekeeping work in order to get to the moments where it is actually enjoyable. In the tech world, there are numerous meetings and corporate bureaucracy to navigate, all of which are clearly undesirable.

Even in a startup environment, the requirement of meetings does not disappear, not to mention that if a last-minute issue springs up, it’s all hands-on deck. No one cares what time of the day it is or what else you have on your plate. It’s up to the team to resolve the issue. If you work at a startup to seek happiness, you’re probably in the wrong place. Seeking to build anything impactful is quite an arduous process and to keep your motivation and stamina on this journey, we need something deeper than happiness.

What I’ve realized is more worthy of my time to pursue, rather than happiness is contentment. While the Oxford dictionary does define it as “a state of happiness and satisfaction,” I prefer to define it as a feeling where one doesn’t necessary require the elated feeling of happiness, but rather a sense of mental and emotional stability where one just feels “okay.”

You’re working towards something in life, but rather than hinging your happiness on reaching that goal, the opportunity to simply partake in the journey is enough to satisfy you, or to make you “content.” In this state of contentment, emotions aren’t turbulent; there will be inevitable peaks and troughs of both joy and disappointment, however, contentment is enough to keep things in perspective and not allow those feelings to overwhelm you.

Contentment stems from a place of mental consistency, one where emotions aren’t in control, and a sense of clarity imbued into each day. It’s a fundamental sense of belonging, peace, and tranquility in this turbulent world. Happiness is usually surface level while contentment is a deep, visceral feeling.
It’s okay to have desires/goals in your life, but contentment is a state where you have moments throughout each day where you live in the present, not some hypothetical tomorrow. Fundamentally, what makes me content is growing as a person each and every day, no matter how little. It doesn’t matter if it’s intellectually, physically, or emotionally. Learning new concepts/ideas and connecting with others are the two pillars that help me achieve this.

Obviously, socializing with my friends, meeting new people, or finally understanding some concept that I’ve been struggling for days to wrap my mind around all instill short term joy in me, but more importantly, it gives me purpose. And the feeling of having purpose transcends any intoxication that happiness could bring.

I’m not saying to boycott happiness or strive to remove it from your life. Emotions--maybe happiness or something more negative--will naturally be by products of the pursuit of your ambitions and goals. That’s simply a matter of fact. Embrace the joyous moments and share them with others when you can, but that shouldn’t be the end all, be all reason you do the things that you do. In my opinion, that’s simply unsustainable because it hinders your ability to cope with the inevitable cornucopia of other emotions that is bound to be thrown your way.

Use your emotions like the north star: to see if you’re going in the right direction, not as an end goal. If your pursuit of contentment results in some happiness along the way, you’re probably going in the right direction. If a long period has elapsed during which you experience zero happiness, you may need to re-evaluate your strategy. Emotions are merely a call to action, nothing more. Allowing yourself to be overly elated during the happy moments will only make the absence of happiness much more miserable, which in the long term obscures your journey.

Some people often refer to the term “true happiness” that should be pursued by all. I understand the sentiment this term stems from, but personally, it doesn’t seem truly representative of the idea it’s attempting to encompass. When someone achieves “true happiness”, does that mean that they will always be constantly jubilant? What role will other emotions play in their lives?

The beauty of rephrasing our mission to seek contentment, rather than “true happiness” is that it still allows us to experience all emotions. Most importantly, it doesn’t invalidate the negative moments. In fact, I would argue that still being able to experience negative emotions is a critical aspect of being human, at least one that aims to empathize with others. If a friend comes to you for support after a death of a loved one, being happy, whether it’s “true” or not, isn’t going to help them. Rather, what they need is empathy and for you to truly be able to put yourself in their shoes and feel the pain that they’re currently feeling. They need to feel understood, loved, and supported.

Some of my most meaningful or transformative conversations with my friends were ones where one of us was despondent by something that really bothered us. Neither of us were happy in that moment, and happiness isn’t what we needed. Having a friend that can help alleviate some of the emotional turmoil is far more important in life than a friend how always makes you happy.

It seems inappropriate to group moments like this under “true happiness,” yet they’re so incredibly important in shaping our relationships and making us who we are. Anyone that hasn’t had the privilege of being sad and having a shoulder to cry on is missing out on a defining facet of the human condition.
Obviously, on a regular basis, hanging out with my friends does make me happy, however, that’s but that’s simply a by-product of the deeper connection I’ve had the privilege of establishing with them. It’s the sense of belonging that my friends give me that means so much more than any feeling of happiness. The people that I’ve allowed to grow closest to me are the ones that make me a better human being, and hopefully the ones for which I can do the same.

Seeking contentment rather than happiness also grants much more clarity in other aspects of life as well. The reason why I am able to work on the projects that I take on for long stretches throughout the day and not feel burnt one at the slightest isn’t because this work makes me happy per say. Rather, it gives me meaning. It gives me a problem to solve. It gives me a mission. There are days where I don’t necessarily find a reason to laugh or smile, maybe because I’ve just been so engrossed in whatever I’ve been working on, whether it’s school or personal. However, that doesn’t mean I regret those days or wish to avoid them. As long as I am learning new ideas and growing in ways that make me a better human, I can go to bed each night with peace resonating through my body.

I recently picked up rock climbing and while it is an enjoyable experience, I wouldn’t say I’m happy every moment I’m on the wall navigating the difficult routes. It’s an engaging activity that taxes my body along with my mind, by requiring me to approach problems in a fundamentally different way than most other problems in life. Sure, after I finally solve a route that has taken all feeling from my forearms and chunks of skin from my hands, you’ll see me smiling with joy, especially when I get to share it with the friends that I’m there with. However, I let that feeling fade away quickly as I move on to tackle the next challenge. The contentment I feel in knowing the Sourish that is leaving the gym is just a little bit stronger and better than the one that entered is what satiates my soul, not the happiness. And this feeling is compounded when I look back to when I started in June of last year and see all the progress I’ve made as a climber.

Starting this blog was something that pushed me out of my comfort zone. I still am not sure who my target audience is and how many people will find my thoughts and opinions insightful. However, the sense of contentment I get from publishing an article is beyond happiness. It’s a moment in time where I walk away having learnt something new about myself.

Happiness, as do all other emotions, plays a very important role in our lives. But chasing happiness or even this so called “true happiness” is essentially a red herring. It’s much more fruitful to recoin the term to “contentment” so as to not get it confused with trivial joy. We don’t want to forget or dismiss the moments where happiness was nowhere to be found, but still have been watershed moments in our lives.
